[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neon.pdf is Cutting Edge and Innovative
Technologies to empower farmers and also
help Banks and governments learn more
about how farming can improve the lives
of its citizens in this episode we spoke
about Jon's career in Supply chains how
demitra leverages blockchains to empower
Farmers how dimitra's analytics are a
value to governments and Banks the
various different types of Technologies
the platform integrates so many
different types of use cases and much
more just a reminder nothing said on
this podcast is a solicitation to buy or
sell any tokens and that nothing should
be taken as Financial advice the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode and you can learn more
about these tokens and other Holdings
through our disclaimer at neo.com I
really enjoyed this conversation with
John and I hope you enjoy it too today
we're joined by John tras the founder
and CEO of demitra which is an a tech
company that's leveraging cuttingedge
technology to help farmers increase
yields reduce expenses and mitigate
risks amongst many other really
interesting niches that I can't wait to
dig into so John uh welcome to the Pod
how you doing today I am fantastic
thanks for having me here today Dylan
yeah I'm really excited to kind of dig
into what the Metra is working on I uh
live in Colorado there is a lot of
Agriculture and agricultural companies
that are here it's a big part of the
economy of the state and there's a large
blockchain community here and the
convergence of the two often means that
we talk about agtech so I think you're
the first guest that we've had on the
Pod to delve into this realm and I'm
just really excited to get started so I
kind of want to um start with like a
very high level question and and uh kind
of go from there so when we're talking
about blockchain and small holder Farms
um one of the ways that I've always been
interested in seeing the convergence of
the two is how blockchain can benefit
and power small scale Farmers maybe as
part of uh the supply chain or maybe to
reduce the overhead that they have to
maintain I have never really been too
certain of what the actual benefits are
so I'm just curious how does blockchain
technology um Empower and make lives
easier for smaller scale Farmers yeah so
there's probably three key ways that we
use blockchain within our application to
help the farmers um the the first one is
for traceability so every everybody
wants to know the Providence of their
food and they want to be able to tell
you know where was it grown how was it
transported where was it processed and
and so that whole Farm to for scenario
and So within our app we do that we
write specific pieces of information to
blockchain and and share that with the
network um or the supply chain so that
there's transparency within the supply
chain and they can choose to use that
how they want the the second way is we
have a real world asset um trading
platform so last year we ran a couple
trials um our first trial was in Kenya
and we planted a th000 avocado trees for
farmers and we sold those as nfts and
essentially you can go in use our token
buy an nft when you buy an nft on the
next launch in May essentially you all
20% of a avocado tree the farmer in
Kenya owns 80% of the avocado tree and
over the years as the avocado tree grows
it creates revenue and you get 20% of
that Revenue uh comes back to you it
starts as Kenyon Shillings but then it
gets on ramp and and converted back and
and you get paid out in dmtr um so
that's another method where we're using
crypto and blockchain and then lastly
another big piece of the whole
blockchain scenario for us um comes into
the use of our app so we have a number
of applications and within the
applications we manage identity with
blockchain we we manage other specific
information we do a ton of AI in our
company and so there's specific data
that we want to capture and we want to
share outputs of that um particularly in
the area of deforestation so there are
new laws in the world around
deforestation the EU U has a new law
which has already come out and everybody
that's producing coffee cocoa soybeans
rubber Timber anything with cattle and
palm oil must report that they are
deforestation free if they're going to
export to the EU so we have um just
processed the first EU compliant
transaction it was coffee going from
Peru to uh Germany and all of the data
within that transaction is gathered and
it's written to blockchain through our
app so that the farmer and the members
of the supply chain have a certificate
to prove using AI to evaluate the farm
that that farmer has not deforested and
and starting in January of next year
with those Commodities all of those
Supply chains must be compliant awesome
so there's a ton in there that I can't
wait to dig into um but when you were
talking about the nfts for the avocado
Farmers that kind of um sentiment is
exactly what got me excited about
Bitcoin and cryptocurrency to begin with
that um there's a large portion of the
world that are unbanked and now with the
Advent of cryptocurrency and blockchain
networks we got to LeapFrog technology
and basically skip over the banks and
connect the rest of the world to a
global commercial Marketplace so long as
they have a cell phone and access to the
internet which everyone does today
so that kind of Genesis of um how you
can Empower like avocado farmers in
various different countries throughout
the African continent really resonates
with me because that was that sort of
thought process was what made it
possible for me to leave my previous
career as an urban planner and go into
blockchain so um with that said um what
when was the first time you heard about
Bitcoin or ethereum or cryptocurrency or
blockchain at all and did you buy into
it immediately or did it take a couple
years for you to have your aha moment so
I I started programming very early in my
life and and cryptography was a piece of
that um in 2011 is I probably heard
quite a bit about Bitcoin and I bought
some and I don't know at that point that
I was completely bought into it but I I
was dabbling or speculating in it and uh
and that was my first moment I really
got heavily involved about 2017 and 2018
um where I was Consulting on different
projects and and uh looking at how do
you apply blockchain to Enterprises so
you actually have associations are ties
to a wide variety of blockchain
associations like blockchain training
Alliance Kryptonite um government
blockchain Association uh shout out to
GBA um John Carpenter actually brought
me on to be a speaker at one of their
conferen events and I actually got to
learn a lot about um Enterprise
blockchain and how Enterprises were
looking at blockchain and this was back
in 2019 so um really cool to hear that
you have these ties um and I have
personally taken away uh a lot of
information and value from GBA so um you
have you have these uh involvements with
these numerous blockchain associations
which cater towards educating business
organizations and Enterprise like
clients so can you just share a little
bit more about your roles with these
entities and the kind of educational
efforts they do and you've done on
behalf of them yeah so a number of years
ago I had a consulting company and we
did a lot of trading with colleges and
universities uh on blockchain and Ai and
and application development I had a team
of instructors um worked with the
blockchain training Alliance in
California they had built some
curriculum and uh license that
curriculum in order to run these
training sessions um so they build great
stuff and and you know nearby to you
blockchain beard guy um lives in
Colorado or at least he lived in
Colorado at that point and uh he was
making a lot of that material same thing
with the blockchain research institute
and and we've been involved in some
research projects with them and some
educational stuff around that and GBA my
involvement as a member of GBA a is that
I you know sit on some of their working
groups that we help write materials and
and Implement materials and speak about
materials um so you know Gerard who runs
GBA does a great job with the message
around the world and and I've been
involved in a few things and you know
blockchain your research institute and
GBA both gave me an award in the last
couple years for some of the work I've
done so I'm grateful to them for
recognizing uh some of my work yeah and
shout out to Gerard he's just a really
nice guy if you ever get to meet him in
person definitely go chat with him he's
more than happy to chat with anyone um
you kind of touched on when you first
got involved with these educational
organizations that you were dealing with
a lot of students in universities do you
still have uh ties to students
universities do you still kind of
collaborate with different universities
what what does that look like today so
we do on a different front back then we
were teaching technology and help
helping people become blockchain
programmers now our interaction is more
from a roll out perspective so I'll give
you an example we have a deal with
andalas University in Indonesia and we
have a need to train Farmers on how to
use our platform uh it's tough to do
that in on the side of a mountain in
Sumatra and Indonesia and so we had
arranged a deal there where they got a
grant from the government for training
they gave us access to a number of
students who went through Dimitra school
or demitra Academy learned about our
platform we taught it right at their
University and then they went to the
field with thousands and thousands of
coffee farmers and taught them how to
use the application and how to register
and and how to transact and get
traceability and that was the big
challenge that that Cooperative uh
originally was working on was solak Rio
they uh needed to provide traceability
back to the farm for their customers in
Europe and North America so the schools
play a big role in that and you know
that was a great initiative we got I
think 30 students for 30 days who went
out and trained a couple thousand
Farmers to get them up on the system and
now we've replicated that a few times in
South America and in other areas that's
super cool um I had the opportunity to
uh tour in late 2022 a wide variety of
universities here in the US to talk
about building careers in web 3 and I
noticed that the most active students
didn't necessarily come from the
computer science colleges but also
Finance Arts um business things like
this so would you say that a lot of the
educational efforts you did particularly
with Demitri Academy were
multi-disciplinary or like were you
dealing with students who might have
been in um agricultural colleges or were
you dealing with computer science
students who were going out and getting
their hands dirty for the first time so
we offered two types of training one is
very technical where you need that
background you need you need a basic
programming background in order to take
course and then secondly is about how do
you apply blockchain and AI to uh
agriculture so you know we ran a number
of sessions we've had uh Ministers of
Agriculture and Deputy Ministers of
Agriculture um fers right through
marketing and sales and and finance take
these courses and you know they all have
an interest they read a little bit about
web3 they read a little bit about
blockchain they I guess their
decision-making process in life is what
do they how do they apply technology to
their interests and sometimes it's just
purely general interest they want to
learn a little bit more about blockchain
where others are already advanced in
their career and trying to figure out
how does blockchain fit into what they
do I think we had 60 people from 60
different ministri Ries and countries
around the world um in agriculture and
they're trying to see how Ai and
blockchain and and iot fit and how their
governments can adopt them and start
working with their Farmers so we offered
the the trading at that fully uh free of
charge and and so we just got a myriad
of people and and it led to some really
great conversations around what
different people are doing in different
countries that's super cool I think when
maybe a lot of your Crypton native
audience starts hearing things like AI
maybe they're thinking about the image
generator or the recent release uh a
month or two ago of the ability for AI
to create super realistic looking videos
but AI can also historically like um
what AI or machine learning has been
used for was scraping through wide
swaths of data so can you just give a
little bit of an example or help paint
the picture for just how large some of
these data sets might be that
governments or Regional farmers are
dealing with and how it might have been
too much of of of a task or too much
overhead for them to um scrape and look
through that data and make anything of
it and how is AI kind of changing the
game today or empowering these folks in
ways that they wouldn't have been able
to maybe 10 years ago yeah I mean so if
you talk about the first problem that
we're trying to address which is
deforestation um we start with satellite
data and we need to look at the world's
forests and we create a digital twin of
the world's forests so think about all
of the countries in the world that you
know grow those crops that I mentioned
earlier coffee and cocoa and and the
others and how much land that takes
we're talking about 570 million farms in
the world and a large number of those f
FS need to be able to produce a report
to say that they're deforestation free
and that's a new law starting in January
of this year everybody needs to comply
and and so when I take that data set
we're looking at a satellite image that
changes every day of a very large
percentage of the Earth's surface and we
need to evaluate the changes in the
forest and the changes on the farms so
the digital twinning process is huge it
would take me thousands or tens of
thousands of people to do that manually
where with machine learning and spectral
imagery coming from the satellites we
can take 20 or 30 spectrums of Light
which each return a different amount of
data and for the purposes of the the new
EU law um look at their cut off date
which was the end of 2020 that they'll
no longer buy deforested products to
today and evaluate the changes on the
fir and then try to determine
if those changes violate any of the new
regulation cuz some change is acceptable
but not all change so there's
complexities where we need to be able to
evaluate the approximate height of the
tree with a satellite which is quite
difficult to do the potential growth of
the tree so is it part of the forest or
will in the next few years it become
part of the forest because it reaches a
certain height criteria um the canopy de
density and and the number of trees in a
certain area and then we have to
evaluate which is much more difficult to
do the difference between a a forest
tree and perhaps uh an agricultural tree
and so AI makes quick work of that um
when we go into a new region go into a
new country we spend probably couple
weeks or a month training our machine
learning to look at the differences in
those areas because the canopies look
different trees are different and that
would be completely impossible to do in
a in a manual format although we
interject some manual processes if you
know we do an evaluation of a firm and
something on that evaluation shows
something that you know AI is not 100%
accurate that the farmer doesn't agree
with they can they can start an appeal
process and and we bring people in to do
some manual intervention and take a look
at what makes sense and make sure that
we're doing the appropriate evaluation
for the firm but 99.9% of the work is
the the machine and you've you've talked
about this a bunch but I just want to
paint the context for the listeners so
um the there the EU has deforestation
goals for set for 2030 and you've
mentioned already that uh essentially um
anyone outside the EU will not be able
to export uh Goods um if they can't
prove that they adhere to these um 2030
D4 station goals is there anything else
I'm missing or is there anything else
that you would like to add to kind of
like paint to the picture of what these
um new targets are well the the goals
defer depending on the country the EU
has one set legislation and this the
legislation says there can be no
deforestation as per the the un's
definition of deforestation after the
end of 2020 and on the seven Commodities
that I mentioned those are the first
Commodities that they're enforcing the
regulation on starting at the end of
December this year and and so let's say
a chocolate company who buys chocolate
through Traders may not have had a
relationship with the Farms U there's a
long supply chain from the Farms to a
chocolate bar being created in in Europe
and and so tying all that information
together is new there are millions tens
of millions of farms in the world that
are involved in Coco and we need to make
sure that they comply not only with the
new European law but part of the
European law says that they also must
comply with the local law so if Colombia
where there's a lot of Coco or or Ghana
has a local law about deforestation not
only do we need to comply with EU we
need to comply with all the local laws
so ra AI needs to have the ability to do
that evaluation the other component is
there's a risk mitigation component so
the farmer needs to create a due
diligence statement so we automatically
create that due diligence statement and
if they have risks they can talk about
the risks their due diligence statement
and their risk mitigation plan and so
we'll go work with them and say yeah
maybe they had some deforestation and
there's ways to mitigate that so we'll
help them mitigate it so that they they
don't get banned from exporting to a
market uh so it's a big part of what we
do the other component is that all of
the certificates which we'll create next
year and even this year when people are
getting set up get paid for by dmtr so
somebody can buy with US dollars or or
Euros or whatever they want but we'll
convert it within our Treasury and then
we use the blockchain as we're writing
that so once the evaluation is done um
we write it to blockchain so we're
writing it right now to polygon we've
got another project where we've
partnered with uh open food chain and
we're writing it to Komodo for for that
project um we can write it to ethereum
and so we're now we're exploring what
other chains are we going to write it to
and and maybe an Asia binance it makes
more sense for us um but I think there's
a there's an integration point with
multiple blockchains some of the um
partners are open to public blockchains
and some of them need to have certain
levels of privacy so there's a decision
making and a design process but we've
built our platform to be blockchain
agnostic so that we can integrate with
many blockchains depending on what the
the clients want so if you know a
European company already has a an
ethereum based blockchain we can
integrate with their blockchain versus
forcing them to polygon or something
else very cool and um you kind of
answered my next question a little bit
with your response but um this is maybe
a little bit of a spicy question uh but
this has always been at the top of my
mind um and this is why I was super
excited to have you come join the
podcast because you're in the trenches
and you can provide just a succinct good
answer um and I'm going to put on my
anti blockchain hat here for a second um
what are the solutions that a
decentralized database offers these
farmers and these emerging um these
emerging uh countries that are as they
grow their economies and and they enter
into this new economic era what are the
benefits that uh blockchain offers that
a centralized database can't yeah I I
think to an extent you can debate what
you can do and can't do but some of the
advantages are and immutable record so
the the farmer gets an immutable record
nobody can tber with it there is in the
food trade as well as probably every
other supply chain in the world some
amount of Fraud and so that's a fraud
reduction tool to us using that
immutable record um to having an open
blockchain allows transparency across a
supply chain and some customers may even
share it rate with their consumers I did
a project a couple years ago on
blueberries where they wanted to share
information right down to the consumer
and and so blockchain does create an
advantage for that um from a security
perspective it certainly creates
different advantages and then from a a
banking perspective um not everybody has
the ability to pay for things so we do
different things within our platform
like trade loans um a farmer may not be
able to afford his deforestation
certificate but if he um offers a
payment when he receives payment for his
coffee then we can then we can you know
back pay that certificate um we don't
want anybody to not be able to comply
but there's always a point where there
needs to be some level of monetary
transfer the other thing is we pay some
of our users for their data so you know
there's a ton of data we collect on
planting and growing and and pests and
weeds and things like that we analyze
all that with our AI it creates value
for us to give feedback to a farmer to
say this is how you should manage this
pest or or disease uh here's some things
you can do to increase your output on
your crop that's valuable to us um and
if they want to be able to share that
data so that we can share it with other
Farmers or universities um we can get
compensated for that and and we can
share some of that Revenue back to the
individual farmer and they can buy
services like a deforestation
certificate with that or they can take
it to a crypto Network and convert the
dmtr into whatever their local currency
is if that's their choice very cool
those are a lot of use cases that um I
hadn't imagined mostly because I'm not
in the weeds of the day-to-day of uh a
tech and a supply chain so um I was very
much looking forward to asking you that
question um can you share a little bit
about how the name demitra came to be
and how um you kind of decided to focus
on these verticals um when choosing what
business to go into I don't think very
many people think agtech is is the
vertical to go into so if you could just
share more about the Genesis of demitra
what it means and kind of like how you
and your team ended up focusing on these
areas I'd love to hear more yeah so I
spent a lot of my career working in
Supply chains in in food and Agriculture
and automotive and energy all all over
the world and
and implementing systems in order to
make them more efficient I would say in
I don't know
2018 or so I was engaged in Africa in
order to register farmers and they
wanted to see if they could use a
blockchain for that so I built a a
blockchain platform and and in 2020 that
came out and essentially it was a
registration identity type platform um
and we collected information about a
million farmers and and so that was the
first test when I got invited to a
meeting in Africa uh in Congo where they
had a big U conference and I got to
speak to lots of people in Africa some
of the challenges they had around
traceability and and how do they compete
with a lack of information so in North
America and Europe a lot of the
companies and Farmers have access to
technology and and at that point in
Africa was much less access and you know
I'll give you an example one of the
conversations I had was around cattle
and Ugandan cattle you know a farmer can
can raise a cow and sell it for $600 or
$1,000 but if they can get it on a boat
or get the beef on a boat and send it to
you know the Middle East or Europe or or
North America they get three four $5,000
for that head of cow now the challenge
in doing that is they have export
regulations and they have to have a
record of the the cow from bir birth and
you know some of the health issues and
and all of the tracebility issues
associated with that and they they have
a lack of those records and all over the
world those Rec records are produced
fraudulently uh in order to get more
dollars for a cow and the goal for a
farmer is I'm you know I'm raising crops
and I'm raising animals either to feed
my family or make money those are the
two things and and so we decided we
would help solve some of those problems
um I was building other blockchains in
the the medical space and and energy
space and and thought okay we'll build
an agricultural blockchain to deal with
those traceability issues and those
regulatory filing issues for Africa so
then it led us to you know what does
that look like we put a team together uh
many of those team members are are still
with us they've been with us since 2021
when we officially Incorporated Demetra
uh and we looked at what what could our
names be and uh I don't know one day I
was looking at Deiter the Greek goddess
of the the harvest and read a piece of
something I don't know Wikipedia saying
that demitra or Deiter depending on the
language um role was to teach people to
have a better crop or a better Harvest
and thought that was perfect went on to
go daddy and what can I get the name
yeah demitra doio bought it and and uh
then we started the the brand branding
cycle and and how do we build that brand
out so for me it aligns perfectly you
know if demitra helps people have a
better Harvest love the Genesis of the
name um you you you spoke about this in
your response and when I was digging
through Dimitra um I noticed that
there's just a lot of different teams
that are under the umbrella of of the
demitra brand so can you share more
about the um how extensive your
different types of teams are and what
they're working on yeah so we're close
to 150 people we probably have 70 um
external salese contract people as well
so at some point we're we're well over
200 people um we have a design team and
that design team has a number of of
designers and researchers and
agronomists who look into what we need
to build into the projects and and so
over the years we've been dabbling with
what What markets can we play in and we
we started with two products alive stock
product and a and a agriculture product
so we have Dimitri connected farmer
which essentially is a product that does
that uh Farm to Fork great from planting
a seed all the way through Harvest and
then beyond that um and then we have a
livestock Guru product which is really
focused today on cattle although it's
called livestock the primary use of the
product is cattle um so we have these
teams who work on individual projects
and and so each project project may have
three to I don't know 25 people on the
project depending on how how big it is
how broad the scope is how much
technology is involved and then we've
got you know dedicated AI people
dedicated mobile people who are making
it work on Android phones because
harders around the world use Android
phones um and and then you know a
technical team and a sales team and a
marketing team and all of the support
you need to run a company you mentioned
the connected farmer platform
I was kind of curious to hear about the
other features that it offers because
you just gave one specific use case so
um what are the types of um reports that
this app provides things like crop
recommendations and other sorts of
features that uh these Farmers now have
access to through the connected farmer
platform yeah so if you get onto the
connected farmer platform the very first
thing you do is register your farm and
you create a polygon or a Geo fence
around your farm the second week create
a polygon around your farm we go off and
we run satellite reports on your farm so
that's an automated process um couple
hours after requesting those reports you
can get if you're on the base model five
satellite reports and if you're in the
advanced you get 23 satellite reports
that look at your crop Health they look
at your moisture levels um they look at
risk for burn you know Sunburn and and
things like that um and essentially they
give you a report saying this this is
the status of your farm today and it it
can be as simple as a red yellow green
report you are showing um blue for
example on a moisture report your farm
has adequate moisture um but if you're
showing red you don't have adequate
moisture around your farm and then you
need to do things to rectify that so are
you picking a crop that works well with
the moisture level you have we do ndvi
reports and reky reports which allow us
to evaluate using AI the performance of
a crop through a growing season and how
does that compare to other farms in your
area and how does that compare to other
farms around the world are you in the
upper percentile where you can have very
good crop performance down to lower
percentiles you can load um data so if
you have a soil sensor um you can load
data about your soil and if you say I am
growing carrots um we have built all of
the material in on 60 crops into our at
and and it'll look at that and say
what's your nutrient levels your your
phosphorus levels what's your your
acidity of the soil and does that match
the crop and if it doesn't what should
you be doing about that adding a certain
fertilizer um managing your soil
differently from a soil prep perspective
we have a little tool where you can ask
about diseases you can take a picture of
a of a Lea of a plant and we can evalue
what diseases affect your plant uh we
have advice about how to deal with pests
uh and then the AI as you start entering
more and more information takes that
information and starts compiling
differences using information from your
farm and information um that we've
gathered from universities and and
wherever we've got the information um to
make different types of recommendations
so that's that's the first piece of the
app that then you can go into the app
and start setting your goals and we can
start helping guide you towards hitting
your farming goals and then you can move
into uh like we have in some areas in
some countries of the world we have the
financial tools so now we have an area
where we can evaluate your farm and if
you say I want to be an avocado farmer
and this is keot to the Genesis of the
Elma project that we're doing in Kenya
um we can do an evaluation on whether
your farm is well suited to Growing
avocados and if it is we give you a
great score if it isn't we give you a
great score and say here the areas that
you need to work on maybe maybe that's
uh irrigation or soil additives that you
can use or your farm is just not suited
to Growing avocados because it freezes
in the winter or whatever the case may
be um we actually sell that tool to
Banks so an individual Bank who issues a
lot of loans can get come in and and say
I want avocado reports for Kenya and
we'll give them access to that and they
can download that and evaluate if
they're giving loans to Farmers we also
give loans to Farmers through crypto and
when a farmer takes one of those we
don't necessarily hand them money we
actually give them the seedling we give
them the Windbreak tree we give them the
fertilizer we give them the sensors in
order to set it up we send them out with
agricultural experts if they're
transitioning from carrots and onions to
avocado which generates more Revenue we
want to make sure that they're
successful so there's training that can
do on your phone there's um expertise
that we give you access to and and then
we're working in in East Africa with a
very large Cooperative that has I think
57,000 avocado farmers and avocado can
change the financial condition for a
local farmer a lot of farmers are stuck
earning you know a less than a living
wage growing crops that don't produce
great Revenue but create a lot of work
that they could integrate if they could
afford 10 or 20 avocado trees into their
farm and if you look at an avocado tree
you take an individual farmer there
might make $500 to $2,000 a year if we
put like we we did some Farms recently
we did ,000 trees as part of our pilot
last year um so if you take a tree when
it's mature that tree will produce 300
or 400 kilos of avocados one tree and
400 kilos of avocados will produce at
today's market rate about $600 so
planting and caring for one tree or
three trees May match the entire Revenue
that they're getting from their Farm
trees require less care over the years
so it's something that they can take on
and and plant onions between the roads
we've got people that we've put 50 and
100 trees on their Farms as part of this
trial you know 100 trees will take that
farmer or that farming family over a
decade from a couple ,000 in Revenue to
$50,000 in revenue and that farmer can
never afford to take 100% of their
annual revenue to start planting these
avocado trees and get all of the stuff
they need in order to do it successfully
so you take you know crypto investor
around the world whether they're retail
or commercial and you start working
these projects and and say maybe you
take $50 you buy a trade give it to your
spouse as a gift and the farmer will go
into the app couple year and take
pictures of that tree and that'll get
routed to you so you know how your tree
is doing and when it's mature enough
it'll start producing revenue and maybe
in the first couple years your revenue
is quite low but a lot of people can
afford $50 you know I did went through
this and went through it pull my mother
about it my mother said I don't even
care if I get the revenue I just want to
help the Kenyan farmer and and so not
everybody's like my mom but kudos to my
mom for wanting to do that the idea of
creating this type of investment is
appealing to the farmer but also Al
appealing to the government so now we're
working with the Ministry of Agriculture
or Federation of Agriculture over there
uh We've signed a deal now in Brazil
with a national government Association
and the state of hara so starting this
year we'll be doing Citrus assai and
caca same thing in in Brazil we're
expanding that to other areas of Brazil
right now um we've got a project uh
being developed right now in Indonesia
for cattle uh and
uh some other projects in Peru and
Colombia that will be using the same
platform so software development for us
then also becomes project develop so we
got to run the project in Brazil which
is working with them which is finding
the farmers which is evaluating if the
farm is suitable working with local um
crowdfunding companies who are licens to
go out and and work with these farmers
and and sell an investment and document
the investment and to make sure that
everything's covered off um working on
the risk mitigation and the
communication so it's really fun to to
do that and and so that's all AI driven
but what's different than most of my
career most of my career has been you
know going and working with a company
and there's a people piece to that I
think there's some extra value for me my
grandfather was a farmer um I worked on
his farm as a as a child uh it was not
illegal child labor though um and and
Essen
you know it's really quite valuable to
to hear the stories and see the stories
and meet the farmers and and see the
change we can make with the artificial
intelligence and crypto this that's
super fascinating um I've never thought
about giving a gift of an avocado tree
to a farmer but to be able to see the
the metric and the yield from that um
just by following that tree on the
demitra platform sounds um incredibly
gratifying especially for somebody who
enjoys to donate funds and money to good
causes um I have a feeling I already
know the answer to this question but
what has uh retaining your clients your
Farmers your government Partners what
does what does that look like do they uh
continue to to sign the the dotted line
every year to keep working with demitra
and what does growth look like are you
seeing growth kind of exponentially is
it through Word of Mouth um can you just
share a little bit more about
uh retaining customers and clients and
uh how you guys are growing yeah so we
only started in 2021 the platform in its
first iteration came out in 2022 for
coffee um those clients are still on
board the ones that we started with um
and for cattle so we haven't lost a
customer over that uh as we continue to
develop features uh we get more and more
clients and right now we have an
abundance of work where you know I just
promoted our head of Latin America to be
the Chief Operating Officer because
we're taking on projects faster than we
can deliver on them so we we need to
have this new operational uh Department
we've got I don't 25 or 30 really active
projects right now around the world and
in over 20 countries and and we have a
sales team of 70 people who are knocking
on doors signing up we probably sign a
new deal every week or two right now and
and then when you look at deforestation
DeForest sttion may be one of the
biggest supply chain events in modern
history there will be a requirement when
deforestation uh reporting is mandatory
next year for tens of millions or
hundreds of millions of transactions
we're the only blockchain tool that does
uh deforestation certifications and
we're we're one of just a handful of
companies who offer the full Suite from
the first mile all the way to you know
the roster the consumer the manufacturer
in the EU um there's a lot of satellite
companies out there who do evaluation of
deforestation but they don't do all of
that agricultural component they don't
have the people on the ground to deal
with some of the challenges associated
with it um we are having people sign up
and and they may not want to sign up for
demitra but we have corporations right
now who have their own software and
they're using our apis so you know they
run it within their own platform they
are valid valuating the forest within
their own platform and every time they
run a report we get we get paid a dollar
or whatever the whatever the deal is on
that API call um we have large large
corporations we're doing Integrations
with right now there'll be some
announcements probably in the next year
when this becomes more prevalent after
the the law goes to ground in 2025 but
you know massive porun 500 companies
that uh are using our API or U
evaluating our software now so lots of
opportunity there and and so everything
deforestation related is is related to
dmtr and if the government or the
corporation says we don't trade in
cryptocurrency they pay a little more
people were paying dmtr get a discount
and and then if they paid me in US
dollars or paid us in US Dollars um our
treasury converts that so if they pay
$50,000 we go to an exchange and buy
$50,000 of dmtr back and on some of our
projects right now um we've actually got
some some burn going so there there is
additional depending on the project and
the project budgets money set aside to
Burns some dmtr so it helps us with our
deflationary metrics what what a killer
use case for a blockchain that I don't
think um I I for certain would not have
thought that deforestation would be a
killer use case for a blockchain with
forthcoming tens of millions to hundreds
of millions of transactions a year um as
it pertain to these certifications and
and verification and authentication when
it comes to ensuring that uh the very
base layer of the farm to table or Farm
to whatever uh is indeed um ensuring
that there is no deforestation so I
can't imagine you know you have ethereum
it has a ton ton of activity going on on
it you have Bitcoin it has tons of
activity going on on it but maybe like a
cosmos chain or an L2 or an alternate L1
this would be a dream partnership um to
be able to onboard demitra and for
demitra to use that chain for these
looming transactions that will be coming
in 2025 and Beyond so when you guys are
evaluating different blockchain networks
to support or to use what are you
looking at um I noticed you mentioned
earlier that some of your clients want
Enterprise chains consortia chains
others are fine with public chains um
what's what's the criteria that you guys
evaluate when integrating support for a
new blockchain so I guess the first
criteria comes down to what does the
customer want you know what what are
they looking for at a chain we are not
tied to many chains our base um data
collection chain is polygon and we chose
polygon because um it was close to
ethereum it was cheap and you know we've
been looking at doing WRA tokens and and
maybe being able to fund it that way
today we there's a conversion or a
treasury activity in order to do that
but uh having an inexpensive transaction
fee is quite important um the kodo chain
that we just did a project on really
came out of our our partner organization
open food chain in Europe and they were
building a kodo blockchain for their
their system so we did an integration in
order to transfer the data so we have a
a project with them with 4,000 farms in
Peru and Colombia um where helitas which
is a big NGO uh engaged us and and are
using the demitra FL form to capture
sales information Farm location
information and deforestation
information we take all of that uh write
it to the cloud and then we autot
transfer it to the kodo blockchain um
because that was their decision they
they wanted that for for different
reasons um and a lot of my career has
been that way I I know quite a bit about
walking I'm not the greatest expert on
blockchain but they all make every
customer makes decisions differently uh
um yeah I often get asked why am I on
ethereum uh ethereum is so expensive and
my answer to that is I have contracts
with governments who will let me be on
bitcoin or ethereum or not get the
contract you know when we started we
chose ethereum for that reason um it it
was a great tool for us it doesn't meet
our expense criteria so we knew rollups
we don't have to transfer every
deforestation report in one shot we can
transfer many deforestations reports in
one shot you know you know particularly
Farmers have to create a report um at a
regular frequency 570 million farms in
the world not all of them shipped to
Europe not all of them shipped to
deforestation regulated countries but
they all have a requirement for
reporting at CAU two years ago 150
Nations signed up to have a
deforestation system like what's going
on in Europe in their country by 2030 so
EU went first um you know so it's a very
large number of nations the EU is or the
US is is working on legislation they put
some through a couple years ago didn't
pass they've Rewritten it now it's going
forward again this year but they've
signed The Pact in order to comply with
deforestation it will be a us version of
deforestation law but they're working on
having that out this year um and Nation
by Nation by Nation everybody's got a
plan from now to 2030 of how they're
going to achieve I am super in we have
first of all I want to caveat this with
we have a little bit of time left and
I'm really interested in delving into
two uh topics but I think I'll I'll lean
into one um first um you already
mentioned a little bit of the dmtr token
and kind of the tokenomics and how it
operates and how you guys use it as
basically the base currency for the
demitra app and ecosystem so I'll let uh
the listeners kind of d y r and delve
into the dmtr token themselves super
fascinating stuff that you guys are
doing with that token and to give it
utility um but since you've already
spoken a little bit about that um I kind
of want to dig into while we still have
you the incubator program that demitra
runs um not only does it offer grants
but I would also imagine that maybe
there's additional technical support
that is shared between uh the 150 plus
folks that are working at demitro with
the folks who are working who are
submitting projects to the incubation
program so could you just while we still
have you share a little bit more about
that program um and maybe a product or
two that's come out of it and then maybe
also some folks you would like to hear
from to apply to that program yeah so um
let's go back to the Kenya example uh
couple years ago we started talking to a
small organization in Kenya they're
called 1 million avocados and their goal
is to plant a million avocado trees in
East Africa um because they believe in
the economic changes that that makes
within their environment that avocados
really fits our African director Victor
um came back to me after talking to them
and and told me how Dynamic the the
young president of that company was and
how passionate he was and and so I
talked to Kevin and saw that passion and
and he had many ideas of of what he
wanted to do he wanted to take
technology to the farmers but a
technology like demitra costs Millions
tens of millions of dollars to build the
AI is is quite expensive to build so we
created a licensing opportunity for him
he didn't have money to pay for that
upfront so he said okay you can have it
for free and we'll go and help you use
the tool and from that a number of
initiatives have spawned he uh you know
he's got this tree sale program that we
came up with in order to help the
farmers he's using the app in order to
do evaluations on the firms and go out
in his Consulting business and help the
farmers be more successful Farmers um he
has a a harvest harvesting business so
he'll go and harvest your firm and what
we've done is we've paid for um sensors
for him and the sensors are you know
$7,000 a piece some of them um to
evaluate avocado quality so that he can
Market the farmers avocados and get more
dollars for them or more Shillings for
them um and then what we do is we build
all of that into the app so he's got a a
web interface that he uses he's got a
team that uses our app and then we walk
through different Business Development
Cycles so Harvest we have a a new trial
coming which is trade financing how do
you take the the farmers who can't
necessarily afford to wait for a couple
months to pay and create a trade
financing scenario where the first trial
we're running it's just one C container
but you know a Sonic C container is 20
tons it's it's a buck 50 US kilo there's
a bunch of expenses associated with that
um the farmer is much better earning a
$150 a kilo than than about a quarter to
a third of that that he earns in in
Kenya and and so we'll make the loan
with the security of the payment coming
back through the platform uh and then we
strip off the loan that we've made and
give the rest back to the farmer um so
that's probably his third initiative um
we funded all of that tens of thousands
of dollars in in funding for him to
build these different initiatives and go
out and Market them and yes some of that
comes back to the Dimitra from an
investment perspective um those are the
types of companies that that we're
working with um you know we'll give a
Cooperative who maybe doesn't can't
afford a the licensing fee for Demitri
and say you know don't don't pay us the
licensing fee here's a grant and you can
use it for free for a year or for two
years and and then when the benefits
start rolling in like you know in in
Indonesia um we did an evaluation soil
evaluation found that the pH of the soil
was so low that they weren't getting
good yields on their Farm we had similar
project in in South America and those
are areas where we can work with a local
partner maybe um put some fertilizer
into the deal and if you've got a th000
firms and they each need 500 bucks worth
of fertilizer we can throw that together
put it out there and recoup that
investment later um we do projects with
Nos and and you know other governmental
organizations where again they struggle
um so we negotiate deals where maybe we
could earn money down the line and
create an ecosystem partner and then we
go just simple where we did a project in
Papa New Guinea last year and and very
large firm um they were heavily affected
by a pest ball army worm that previously
had wiped out 50% of their crop and um
one of the strategies that we came up
with to deal with that was Precision
spraying so we we got some drones um
could do spectral imagery on the firm
evaluate the pockets of the Fall army
worm and then a second drone with a
sprayer was programmed to go out and
spray just the areas that are affected
by Fall Ary worm and and you know reduce
the loss from 50% to 20% in the first
year there's some investment there you
got to buy some drones the drones are 25
$30,000 a piece you got to train people
in order to use them you've you've got
to build the ability to Precision spray
and I don't want to be a drone operator
around the world so we want to create
incubator Partners or or Partners around
the world who own their own little drone
business and help the firms in their
area they can go out and charge whatever
number of dollars per hour in order to
do that and do Precision spraying and
precis precision analytics and feed all
of that data back to the Demetra
platform which feeds back the the the
maps of where to spray and things like
that so lots of different use cases um
but really it's about playing technology
to specific crops and and in some cases
cattle John I was so looking forward to
this conversation to talk about agtech
because I think it's uh a hidden sector
for a lot of uh Innovation and I also
really appreciate how uh demitra is
using nfts and its own cryptocurrencies
to uh provide some sort of incentive
structure for or uh degenerates uh or
people who care about this sort of stuff
to kind of uh invest a little bit of
their own capital resources to help
folks in different parts of the world
become better Farmers using new
technology so this conversation
definitely did not disappoint um what is
the best way for folks who are
interested in reaching out to you or to
demitra to contact you yeah so if you go
to our website demitra Doo um there is a
social media tree there that has all of
our contact all of our our social media
um and and uh you know everything I
think the email of all of our leadership
team is there um as well as you can get
me occasionally on Twitter or different
places like that if you want to DM me
and I I do get involved in some of the
socials telegram Telegram and Twitter
and Linkedin for the most part I don't
follow them all um just from a Time
perspective and and then the other thing
you know is people are making decisions
around the the crypto component of this
and the technology component um we are
probably one of the most active AI
projects in the world and and so uh we
do attract people who are just
interested in that AI technology and we
sell our AI as well so that's a big big
component I know AI is very popular in
crypto right now um we haven't marketed
that in the past but now we're trying to
spend more time talking about our our AI
just because of the the interest levels
so
I just want to put that out there
totally well uh John this was a great
conversation thank you so much for
spending an hour with us today um
definitely looking forward to keeping my
finger on the pulse and and following
demitra uh moving forward so I just want
to thank you so much for joining the
smart economy podcast today well thank
you for having me it's been a been a
great hour and uh hopefully I get to
talk to you more in the future
absolutely looking forward to it cheers
thank you take care well what did you
think of that conversation I found so
much of what demitra is working on to be
completely fascinating from the new
economic paradigms they're leveraging
with blockchain to how technology can
have an almost immediate impact on not
only the farmers but also government
entities Banks and other partners they
collaborate with it was also incredible
to hear John's estimates that onchain
deforestation related transactions can
reach into the tens or hundreds of
millions of transactions in the coming
years and it would was so cool to hear
about these specific instances that can
improve Farmers lives such as planting
avocado trees and dealing those crops
and how these farmers can learn more
about bees and different types of
opportunities through the information
that's available on the demitra
application to keep up to date with the
podcast please head over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and if
you've liked the guests that we've had
on the show please consider showing
support by rating and reviewing the show
on your favorite podcasting platform
every rate review and comment helps us
get this podcast in front of more
people's ears and eyes and of course if
you're a Neo token holder please
consider voting for Neo news today as
your Council representative we've
proudly been serving the Neo ecosystem
since 2017 and we'll continue to do so
by putting portions of our Council
rewards directly back into ecosystem
growth initiatives with all that said
thank you so much for listening to this
episode of the smart economy podcast and
we look forward to catching you next
time